# Answers to how the web works, as understood by Miguel A. Ibarra, Jr.

1. The Linux operating system is a operating system derived from UNIX to be mostly free and open for anyone to use and modify. The kernel or the main source code that runs the operating system is accessible for any user to view or modify which is why it's such a ubiquitous operating system. Android OS used for Android smartphones is actually a modifed Linux distribution, and many other operating systems running on things like smartTVs (Tiazen OS) and thermostats (Nest's OS) use Linux. Because Linux is free and open source, it has been used by many companies including the aforementioned examples to open and modify to meet the company's needs.

2. A VPS is basically a computer that runs remote from a local machine. Oftentimes a VPS will be running on a block of memory on a distant computer. Say memory blocks 11310 - 12420 are dedicated to your website. The VPS will handle requests from clients (basically individual's PCs) to send packets of data needed to render your website. Other websites might be allocated other memory blocks, so right next to the memory dedicated for your website, blocks 12420-15070 would be dedicated to funnykittensite.com, blocks 15070-20190 would be allocated to bobsblog.com, etc. Larger websites like Facebook and YouTube will actually build their own physical computers to run their code. You can even convert your own personal computer into a server to handle requests from clients, although note that you are essentially opening up your personal computer to other people.

3. The main reason you want to avoid using the root user in Linux is because by running your programs and applications on the root user, any bug or computer virus will have access to the root directory and essentially can have the potential to mess up the machine itself. The root user has access to everything on that machine, and as such if a virus runs that destroys user data on the machine, the virus will be much more devastating then if it were to run on an individual user with far less privilages.